# Choosing your Pre-MAP Research Project

It’s time to choose your Pre-MAP project! You will spend the second half of the quarter working closely with your research advisor and research partner on guided research. At the end of the quarter you will give a presentation on the results of this work. It’s important to choose a project that interests and excites you, so you can stay focused and motivated. Some helpful things to consider when ranking projects:

1. Your level of interest in the science behind the project
2. The skills you will obtain by completing the project
3. The possibility of continuing similar research beyond this quarter
4. The potential to present the research at a future conference
5. The potential to be included as an author in a scientific publication resulting from the research

**Your writing assignment** is to: 

1. Rank the three research projects that you want to work on the most based on the project description and the research advisers’ presentations.
2. For each project, briefly describe why the project interests you and/or why you would benefit from working on the project. Each justification should be 1-3 sentences.
3. For the project you would like to work on the most, indicate whether you would you would be OK with being the only student working with your research advisor or if you would rather work on your second or third choice project as part of a two person team (if the alternative was to work alone). This is important if no one else chooses your #1 ranked project.

Send the above information to me by email as soon as possible, but no later than Sunday Oct. 9 at 5 pm.
